CERN Open Hardware Licence Version 2 - Permissive

Preamble

CERN has developed this licence to promote collaboration among hardware
designers and to provide a legal tool which supports the freedom to use,
study, modify, share and distribute hardware designs and products based on
those designs.

1 Definitions

1.1 'Licence' means this CERN-OHL-P version 2.

1.2 'Source' means information such as design materials or digital code which
can be applied to Make or test a Product or to prepare a Product for use,
Conveyance or sale, regardless of its medium or how it is expressed. It may
include Notices.

1.3 'Covered Source' means Source that is explicitly made available under
this Licence.

1.4 'Product' means any device, component, work or physical object, whether
in finished or intermediate form, arising from the use, application or
processing of Covered Source.

1.5 'Make' means to create or configure something, whether by manufacture,
assembly, compiling, loading or applying Covered Source or another Product or
otherwise.

1.6 'Notice' means copyright, acknowledgement and trademark notices,
references to the location of any Notices, modification notices (subsection
3.3(b)) and all notices that refer to this Licence and to the disclaimer of
warranties that are included in the Covered Source.

1.7 'Licensee' or 'You' means any person exercising rights under this Licence.

1.8 'Licensor' means a natural or legal person who creates or modifies
Covered Source. A person may be a Licensee and a Licensor at the same time.

1.9 'Convey' means to communicate to the public or distribute.

2 Applicability

2.1 This Licence governs the use, copying, modification, Conveying of Covered
Source and Products, and the Making of Products. By exercising any right
granted under this Licence, You irrevocably accept these terms and conditions.

2.2 This Licence is granted by the Licensor directly to You, and shall apply
worldwide and without limitation in time.

2.3 You shall not attempt to restrict by contract or otherwise the rights
granted under this Licence to other Licensees.

2.4 This Licence is not intended to restrict fair use, fair dealing, or any
other similar right.

3 Copying, modifying and Conveying Covered Source

3.1 You may copy and Convey verbatim copies of Covered Source, in any medium,
provided You retain all Notices.

3.2 You may modify Covered Source, other than Notices, provided that You
irrevocably undertake to make that modified Covered Source available from a
location where the Licensor has the right to access it, in the event that You
Convey a Product in circumstances where the recipient does not otherwise
receive a copy of the modified Covered Source. This subsection does not apply
to a Product which is made only for Your own use.

3.3 You may Convey modified Covered Source (with the effect that You shall
also become a Licensor) provided that You:

a) retain Notices as required in subsection 3.1;

b) add a Notice to the modified Covered Source stating that You have modified
it, with the date and brief description of how You have modified it;

c) retain all references to the location of any Notices;

d) make available the modified Covered Source under the terms of this Licence;

e) do not apply any further restrictions to the exercise of the rights granted
under this Licence.

3.4 You may Convey Covered Source or modified Covered Source under a licence
other than this Licence provided that You comply at all times with subsection
3.3(a); You also provide a copy of the Covered Source or modified Covered
Source to any Licensee to whom You Convey the Covered Source or modified
Covered Source; and You do not apply any terms which restrict the rights
granted under this Licence.

4 Making and Conveying Products

You may Make Products, and/or Convey them, provided that You either provide
each recipient with a copy of the Covered Source or modified Covered Source,
as applicable, or ensure that each recipient is notified of the location of
the Covered Source or modified Covered Source, as applicable.

5 Research and Development

You may Convey Covered Source, modified Covered Source or Products to a legal
entity carrying out development, testing or quality assurance on Your behalf
provided that the legal entity keeps the Covered Source, modified Covered
Source or Products confidential and does not Convey them.

6 DISCLAIMER AND LIABILITY

6.1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY -- The Covered Source and any Products are provided
'as is' and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to,
implied warranties of merchantability, of satisfactory quality,
non-infringement of third party rights, and fitness for a particular purpose
or use are disclaimed in respect of any Source or Product to the maximum
extent permitted by law. The Licensor shall not be liable for any actual,
incidental, consequential or indirect damages, including, but not limited to,
loss of profits, loss of revenue, loss of data, loss of use, or any loss of
any kind, however caused, arising from the use or Making of Products or the
use of the Covered Source, except to the extent that liability cannot be
excluded by applicable law.

6.2 If the Licensor has not provided specific information regarding safety
procedures, You shall not assume that the absence of such information
indicates that there are no risks associated with the Covered Source or
Products. The Licensor disclaims any liability in relation to the use of the
Covered Source or Products except to the extent that liability cannot be
excluded by applicable law.

7 Patents

7.1 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Licence, each Licensor hereby
grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free,
non-transferable, non-sublicensable licence under its Necessary Claims to
Make, have Made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer
Products, where such licence applies only to those patent claims licensable by
such Licensor that are necessarily infringed by the exercise of rights under
the Covered Source as Conveyed by that Licensor.

7.2 Notwithstanding subsection 7.1, if You institute patent litigation against
any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging
that the Covered Source or a Product constitutes direct or contributory patent
infringement, then any patent licences granted to You under this Licence for
any Covered Source shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

8 General

8.1 If any provisions of this Licence are or subsequently become invalid or
unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions shall remain effective.

8.2 You shall not use any of the names (including acronyms and abbreviations),
images, or logos under which the Licensor is known, save in so far as
necessary to comply with section 3, or where explicitly allowed by the
Licensor. Any such permitted use shall be factual and shall not be made so as
to suggest any kind of endorsement or implication of involvement by the
Licensor.

8.3 This Licence shall not be interpreted or construed so as to waive any
right or immunities available to the Licensor or You, including sovereign
immunities, under any relevant jurisdiction or international law.

Version 2, 17 March 2020
